Good afternoon, Sharon.
We can see you afternoon. Good afternoon. We can hear you.
Welcome to the Social Services and Community SL committee.
Uh, so look, we've got 10 minutes with you this afternoon.
Um, if you wanted to make some comments is up to you
how long you want to do them, but, uh,
also a couple of, um, questions.
The committee probably has, um, nothing co onerous,
but there's a few, a few questions we might
wanna clarify with you.
Um, so the time is yours.
Okay. Thank you for that.
Um, I, I did get one question in the letter that I was sent,
so I'll address that
and then, um, if you've got some other things,
we can talk about that after, if that's okay.
Absolutely. No, thank you. Okay, well thank you
for inviting me today.
Um, the subject that was raised in the letter is the upkeep
of Charles working Carter's grave.
Um, so back in 2023 as a precursor
to the bill, uh,
when we were exploring the high court route prior to, um,
going down the act of Parliament route, um,
I signed an affidavit which included the wording,
the society undertakes to maintain the grave
of the late Mr. Carter as a condition
of approving the proposed scheme.
So that being the case, since that time, we've been aware
that the responsibility for the grave is going
to shift shift to the society on the wind up of the estate
in consultation with the public trust.
We've already taken on that responsibility
being local in our community.
Our executive felt that it would be more cost effective
for us to organize any repairs and maintenance required
because in effect, as the sole Ben,
pretty much the sole benefit
or the remainder beneficiary, we are paying
for it one way or the other.
So to that end, we've found an expert
to redo the lead lettering
and we've, um, there was some problem
because the, it's in pretty bad condition at the moment
and there was some doubt about what the actual wording was.
Some, some of the words were illegible,
but we've actually managed to find the original wording.
Uh, so now that we've done that,
we've actually approved his quote so that
that will be going ahead
and there's a small amount
of minor work just in the surrounds to the grave
that we'll also be, um, attending to.
Um, so the Carter Society agrees that the responsibility
for the costs of keeping the grave
and proper water per the, um,
section seven A in the, in the Act, um,
needs to be recorded so
that there's no doubt about it in the future.
So if it's the wish of this committee to achieve that
by codifying that responsibility in the bill,
then we'd be supportive of that.
Alright, bro. Fabulous. No, thank you.
That, that, that answers
the question the committee had, I think.
Um, so I appreciate, appreciate that.
Um, look, think the work's going quite well on the bill.
I think from the committee's perspective.
Um, there was, there was one other question that's we've,
um, that's been raised that would, uh, just get
interesting your thinking of thinking on.
And one is one of the, uh, I think purposes
of this bill is just sort of remove some
of the ministerial decision making from the Minister
of Health to make it a, you know, more pragmatic and the,
and and the, that we're now in.
But some of it has been retained in terms of the, um,
fee setting and we're just wondering whether that needs
to be statutory
or recorded in the new bill, whether
that could be achieved by some other mechanism.
And we can, if you don't have the answer, we can, we can ask
for advice on that later.
Sorry, the fee setting?
Yeah, the um, um, where, where is this,
the caps, um, on, on the fees that can be charged and
It, the only thing
that was in the bill is my understanding is, uh, for the,
the, we had to get ministerial approval
for changing our rules.
So that's the approval that we've received, not
to do nothing to do with the fee charging, which, um,
is statutory, I, I believe for
Yeah, yeah. Sorry,
I'll, I'll I'll read it out just so, um, okay.
I didn't, I didn't put it very clearly.
Uh, section 12 uh, says that there's a power
to charge residence of the new card home
and that the quote, minister of Health may from time
to time fix the maximum charters, which may be
so made either generally or inspect of specified persons
or classes of persons in, in quote.
I'm just wondering whether that from,
from the society's perspective needs to be retained or,
or whether the, you know,
can be flexible and how that's managed.
From our point of view, the fees are determined by
the government anyway, um, for all care homes.
So, um, how that's,
yeah, we hadn't addressed that part of the act
and our lawyers obviously hadn't, um, hadn't either thinking
that it was just covered probably by what normally happens.
I don't know if that's the minister that, um, sets those
fees at the moment or if it's like the director general
of health or who it is
that sets the fees in practice at the moment.
So Yeah.
Yeah, if there's a, if there's an issue with that,
then if we can tidy it up, that would be good.
Yeah, we're just, just looking to make it as simple
as possible to administer,
so we'll, we'll get some advice on that.
That'd be good. Thank you. That's,
that's the main objective of this, um, isn't it?
Yes, it is. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
No, brilliant. Any, any other questions members?
Um, no, I, the only other thing we've discussed, uh,
Sharon is, um, just the in annual contribution
to the Anglican Vicar of Cardin.
Yes. So just making it clear that that's, um,
that the bulk amount that's going to be paid is in lieu
of ongoing annual fees or contributions.
So we, we may just need to tidy that little bit up as well,
just to make it clear in the preamble.
Okay. Yes, that's fine. Yep. Yep. Thank you.
I think that, I think that's it for questions.
So look, thank thanks Sharon.
Um, we, and, um, uh, please if you're welcome
to stay online, uh,
but this, this will end the public session now.
Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks. Okay.
Alright. Um, so we have, um, s so
can advisors in the prior bill, so.